README.md, before:

Glowstone
==========

Introduction
------------

Glowstone is an open-source implementation of the
[Minecraft](http://minecraft.net) server software written in Java, originally
forked from Graham Edgecombe's now-defunct
[Lightstone](https://github.com/grahamedgecombe/lightstone) project.

The official server software has some shortcomings such as the use of threaded,
synchronous I/O along with high CPU and RAM usage. Glowstone aims to be a
lightweight and high-performance alternative.

Glowstone's main aim as a project independent from Lightstone is to offer a
higher-performance server while maintaining compatability with the multitude
of plugins available for the popular [Bukkit](http://bukkit.org) server plugin
development interface. It does this through implementing Bukkit classes and
loading Bukkit plugins which interface with these classes.

Building
--------

Glowstone can be built with the
[Java Development Kit](http://oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads) and
[Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org). Maven is also used for dependency
management.

You may download and compile [Bukkit](https://github.com/Bukkit/Bukkit)
yourself if you desire and install it using `mvn install`, but it and other
dependencies will be automatically downloaded by Maven if they are not found.

The command `mvn package` will build Glowstone, and `mvn install` will copy it
to your local Maven repository. Official builds of Glowstone may be found on
[Jenkins](http://ci.onarandombox.com/job/Glowstone).

Running
-------

Running Glowstone is simple because all dependencies, including Bukkit, are
shaded into the output jar at compile time thanks to a nifty Maven plugin.
Simply execute `java -jar glowstone-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` along with whatever
memory-related options to Java you desire, and the server should start.

By default, configuration is stored in the `config/` subdirectory and logs
are stored in the `logs/` subdirectory. The main configuration file is
`config/glowstone.yml`, which replaces CraftBukkit's `server.properties` and
`bukkit.yml`. Settings from these two files will be copied over to Glowstone's
configuration during the default configuration generation process.

Glowstone uses a [JLine](http://jline.sf.net)-based server console for command
input. On non-Windows systems, console output can also be colored. 

Documentation
-------------

Javadocs can be generated by using the `mvn javadoc:javadoc` command in the
terminal. This utilizes Maven's javadoc plugin and may need to download
dependencies the first time it is run.

For documentation on the Bukkit API, see the
[Bukkit Javadocs](http://jd.bukkit.org/).

Credits
-------

 * [The Minecraft Coalition](http://wiki.vg/wiki) - protocol and file formats
   research.
 * [Trustin Lee](http://gleamynode.net) - author of the
   [Netty](http://jboss.org/netty) library.
 * Graham Edgecombe - author of the original
   [Lightstone](https://github.com/grahamedgecombe/lightstone) - and everyone
   else who has contributed to Lightstone.
 * All the people behind [Maven](http://maven.apache.org) and
   [Java](http://java.oracle.com).
 * [Notch](http://mojang.com/notch) and all the other people at
   [Mojang](http://mojang.com) - for making such an awesome game in the first
   place!

Copyright
---------

Glowstone is open-source software released under the MIT license. Please see
the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

Changed from spaces to tabs to match other projects Changed license from to LGPLv3 Cleaned up files to match formatting conventions a bit Renamed rest of Glowstone references to Spout Updated dependency versions in pom.xml and refactored

README.md, after:

Spout
==========
Introduction
------------
Spout is an open-source implementation of the [Minecraft](http://minecraft.net) 
server software written in Java, originally forked from Tad Hardesty's Glowstone
project, which was originally forked from Graham Edgecombe's now-defunct
[Lightstone](https://github.com/grahamedgecombe/lightstone) project.

The official server software has some shortcomings such as the use of threaded,
synchronous I/O along with high CPU and RAM usage. Spout aims to be a
lightweight and high-performance alternative.

Spout's main aim as a project independent from Lightstone is to offer a
higher-performance server while maintaining compatability with the multitude
of plugins available for the popular [Bukkit](http://bukkit.org) server plugin
development interface. It does this through implementing Bukkit classes and
loading Bukkit plugins which interface with these classes.

Building
--------
Spout can be built with the
[Java Development Kit](http://oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads) and
[Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org). Maven is also used for dependency
management.

You may download and compile [Bukkit](https://github.com/Bukkit/Bukkit)
yourself if you desire and install it using `mvn install`, but it and other
dependencies will be automatically downloaded by Maven if they are not found.

The command `mvn package` will build Spout, and `mvn install` will copy it
to your local Maven repository. Official builds of Spout may be found on
[Jenkins](http://ci.onarandombox.com/job/Spout).

Running
-------
Running Spout is simple because all dependencies, including Bukkit, are
shaded into the output jar at compile time thanks to a nifty Maven plugin.
Simply execute `java -jar spout-dev-SNAPSHOT.jar` along with whatever
memory-related options to Java you desire, and the server should start.

By default, configuration is stored in the `config/` subdirectory and logs
are stored in the `logs/` subdirectory. The main configuration file is
`config/spout.yml`, which replaces CraftBukkit's `server.properties` and
`bukkit.yml`. Settings from these two files will be copied over to Spout's
configuration during the default configuration generation process.

Spout uses a [JLine](http://jline.sf.net)-based server console for command
input. On non-Windows systems, console output can also be colored. 

Documentation
-------------
Javadocs can be generated by using the `mvn javadoc:javadoc` command in the
terminal. This utilizes Maven's javadoc plugin and may need to download
dependencies the first time it is run.

For documentation on the Bukkit API, see the
[Bukkit Javadocs](http://jd.bukkit.org/).

Credits
-------
 * [The Minecraft Coalition](http://wiki.vg/wiki) - protocol and file formats
   research.
 * [Trustin Lee](http://gleamynode.net) - author of the
   [Netty](http://jboss.org/netty) library.
 * Graham Edgecombe - author of the original
   [Lightstone](https://github.com/grahamedgecombe/lightstone) - and everyone
   else who has contributed to Lightstone.
 * All the people behind [Maven](http://maven.apache.org) and
   [Java](http://java.oracle.com).
 * [Notch](http://mojang.com/notch) and all the other people at
   [Mojang](http://mojang.com) - for making such an awesome game in the first
   place!

Copyright
---------
Spout is open-source software released under the LGPLv3 license. Please see
the `LICENSE.txt` file for details.
